# General 🌝
First of all, check out [[7. Caution]]. Check out the [[2. Quickstart]] Guide on how to get started with this application. The [[2. Quickstart#💫 Installation]] provides you with the necessary information to install this project on mac os or linux. In [[Usage and Parameters]] all relevant and optional parameters and use-cases are explained.

Also feel free to check out the demo screencast of the [web application](https://i.imgur.com/3uLj7gv.gif) and the [CLI screencast](https://i.imgur.com/gGHVDyQ.gif).

[[8. Changelog]] provides changes, enhancments and bug fixes for each released version. Navigate to the [[9. Roadmap]] to check out what is being worked on and what is yet to come.

Do you want to get further insights into the indexing reward calcuation? Navigate to [[4. Indexing Rewards]]. [[6. Developer]] and [[5. Architecture]] show resources to better understand and contribute to the development and improve the tool.
## Impact and Goal 

Allocations are a very important tool for indexers. Depending on the amount of allocations and the distribution of allocations on different subgraphs the indexing reward is calculated. Of course, this could be done manually - or a rule for the distribution of the stake could be set in advance. However, this might lead to not getting the optimal indexing reward.

Therefore, we developed a tool (contributions appreciated) that **calculates the optimal allocation distribution using optimization algorithms**. For this purpose, the relevant variables in the indexing reward formula are queried using the meta subgraph, these are transferred to a linear optimization model and the model calculates the optimal distribution of the allocations on the different subgraphs.

The tool creates an allocation script (**script.txt**) that can be used to change the allocations. It is possible to supply different parameters such as **indexer address** , **parallel allocations**, **threshold**, **maximal allocation in % per Subgraph**. The thresholds can be set as the minimum percentage increase of the indexing rewards and also taking into account the transaction costs for reallocations.

The **goal** is to provide TheGraph indexers a tool to gain the highest possible return of indexing rewards from their invested stake and to react to changes in the ecosystem in an automated way. The optimization process takes every allocation and distribution of allocations and signals into consideration. After every successful optimization the results for the next optimization will differ from the previous one. It is an **ever changing process of optimization** because the relevant variables for the formula change. Therefore everyone who would use our allocation optimization script would benefit from it. Manually keeping track of changing circumstances in the ecosystem and distribution would be too time consuming.

The goal is to provide indexers with automation and value in the allocation process without having to worry much about the allocation distribution and indexing reward formula.

This would simplify the work and optimize the outcome of one aspect of being in indexer, making this role more accessible and attractive, therefore helping to decentralize this part of the ecosystem even more. All participants would benefit, as their costs decrease / profits would increase and they would be relieved of the work of manual allocation.

As an additional benefit for the ecosystem, the optimized allocation distribution in the subgraphs improves. The ecosystem would benefit because an optimal distribution would not give a few subgraphs the most allocations (the best known or largest projects), but the indexing rewards formula can also make it worthwhile to allocate to smaller subgraphs, which is time-consuming to calculate manually.

## Feedback

To improve the tool, we look forward to your feedback. We would like to know which additional parameters would be relevant for you to tailor the optimization process more to the individual indexer. Furthermore, we would be interested to know which additional metrics you would like to see to track the performance of the indexer.
## Anyblock Analytics and Contact
Check out [anyblockanalytics.com](https://anyblockanalytics.com/). We started participating in TheGraph ecosystem in the incentivized testnet as both indexers and curators and are Mainnet indexers from the start. Besides professionally running blockchain infrastructure for rpc and data, we can provide benefits through our data analytics and visualization expertise as well as ecosystem tool building.

**Contact:**

Discord: yarkin#5659  
E-Mail: [yarkin@anyblockanalytics.com](mailto:yarkin@anyblockanalytics.com)